In previous lecture we find what is that.
And in this lecture I will show you what can we do with SATs.
In other words what operations we can do with sets.
First operation is called subset and it is similar to smaller than or equal to sign that this one is
more kind around and a subset of B when B contains every element that is then A and it can also contain
other elements that are not in play.
And that is OK.
Important does that B contains every element from May.
So here are a few examples.
First one is correct because one is in set B four is instead B and nine is said B.
So it is true and it doesn't matter in what order they are.
Important thing is that B contains every element from a second example is false because in a we have
a right but in B we do not have it and it is not enough to have some elements.
There must be every element.
And also note is this if a is not a subset of B.
We use this notation to describe this relation.
OK.
And the last example the sets are equal as you can see.
So it is also true that B contains every element from May.
In other words a subset of B.
Now I want you to pause the video and think about when a and b are equal and you subset operation to
describe this relationship.
OK so we know that in order for a to be the same as B we need to have every element for may be.
But we also need to have every element from B.
Right.
So now it is pretty simple to describe it using subsets operation.
A and B are equal if A is subset of B and B is a subset of J.
And really if you think about it it makes sense.
For example if a contains four and six and B contains 0 4 and 6 a subset of B because four and six R&B
about B in a subset of they because 0 is not in they.
So a is not equal to be.
Another important thing is cardinality of said and it is just the number of elements in set.
We use this notation to describe cardinality.
So if we have set B containing red blue green and yellow the cardinality of this set B is 4 because
B contains four elements.
Very simple right.
That also sets can have no elements.
Think of it as empty box.
These are defined by this GRASSET zero and it just means empty box empty braces set that have no elements
and cardinality of the set is obviously zero.
Also some sets have cardinality equal to infin..
Why.
Well they have infinite number of elements.
For example if I take all numbers from one to infinity and put them into one said they said will contain
1 2 3 4 5 6 6 billions and so on and so on.
And it will never stop because we are going to infinity and infinity just keeps getting bigger and bigger.
So it's something like our universe.
It expands all the time.
So it is infinite it is bad.
I will talk more about this in next lectures.
Let's look at another basic operation.
First one is union and we use this operation to kind of put together two sets and two on to describe
Union.
We use this kind of use side.
So for example if I do a union of A and B and C will be all elements from A and all elements from B.
So if A is containing 1 and 2 and B is containing 2 and free union of A and B will be 1 2 FREE.
Why isn't that 1 2 2 free.
Well we didn't not write repeating elements right.
I mentioned this in previous lecture.
So let's take a look at the next example.
In this case A is 1 and 2 and B is also 1 and 2.
So the union will be one and two.
You can guess the result in this case where a contains 1 to free and B contains 4 and 5.
The union of A and B will be 1 2 3 4 5.
I hope that makes sense.
Let's take a look at basic properties of this operation.
I believe that if you really think about it you can figure it out.
So what is the relation between A union B and B Union J.
Well we have set containing all the elements from a.
And also all the elements from B.
And then we have other set containing all the elements from B and then also all the elements from a.
And you don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure out these two sets are the same right.
OK.
Next one might not be so obvious but it also makes sense.
A united with a B union C is also the same as a union B United.
With c why.
Well if you think about it here we are not a with the sad that is containing all the elements from B
and C.
And here we are and I said that it's containing all of the elements from a and b with set C..
So in both example the final set will contain all the elements from a b and c.
Right.
OK.
Another interesting fact is that a union a is equal to A.
Right.
Because this set is containing all the elements from a kind of twice.
But since we don't care about how many times element is set it is the same as a.
And I think that has enough properties.
So let's take a look at intersection and what this basically does well it takes only the elements that
are in both sets.
We use this kind you upside down to describe this operation.
And let me show you a few examples.
If a contains 1 and 2 and B contains 2 and free the intersection of A and B will be set containing 2
because 2 is the only element that is in a but also in B.
So you can imagine this as if you have two boxes and you are taking only the elements that are in both
boxes.
Here is another example where a contains 1 and 2 and B contains want and to the intersection of A and
B Wirz out into set containing 1 and 2.
Because we have 1 in a.
But also in B and we have two and they but also in B and in the example A contains 1 2 and 3 and B contains
4 and 5 and the intersection of A and B is empty set because there is no element that is an A and B.
I hope this makes sense.
I think it does.
So let's take a look at some basic properties of this operation.
First one says that intersection of A and B is the same as intersection of B and they and this makes
sense right.
Second one says that a intersected with B intersection C is the same as a intersection B intersected
with C.
So if you think about it both of these statements will result in two said.
And in this set will be only elements that are in a b and c there are more properties but you can figure
out all of this if you really think about it so the next property says that a intersection a is equal
to.
And this one also makes sense because you have the elements that are in both sets and the sets are equal.
That means the result will be also equal to a last operation.
I will talk about in this lecture as councilman's this operation kind of represents subtraction with
sets.
And what I mean by that.
Well a complement B is basically a without the elements that are in B.
This might be confusing but it is actually pretty simple.
If I have here set a containing 1 and 2 and then I have your set B containing 2 and 3.
The complement is described by this and turned divide sine and the result is set that contains ments
from a that are not in B.
So you can think of it two ways.
First one is that you are picking every element from a.
And you are looking whether it is all I meant is also and B if it is you Frodo's alignment way if it
is not.
You add it into a result.
So the result of compliments of a and b is set containing 1.
Why.
Well one is not in B.
So we added to the result then we grab two and find out that two is in B.
So if we're going away I hope that makes sense.
And next example a contains 1 and 2 and B contains 1 and 2.
So the result of complement of a and b is empty set.
Why.
Because every element from May is also in B.
From this you can kind of figure out one property of compliment.
If A is a subset of B then complement of A and B is empty set.
And if you think about it a little bit it should make sense.
Let's take a look at last example where a contains 1 2 and 3 and B contains four and five.
Then the complement of A and B will be a.
That means set containing 1 2 and 3.
Why.
Because B is not containing any element for A-MEI.
Now let's take a look at some basic properties of complements.
First one is that complement of A and B is not the same as complement of B.
And they the only case where the result of these are the same is when A is equal to B.
For example try this with a containing 1 2 3 and 4 and B containing 1 and 2.
Also not a property is that good implemented of day and day is empty set.
This also makes sense right.
OK that's all there is to it.
If you have any questions don't hesitate to contact me.
I'm here to help.
And I will see you next time.